pyfs/README.md, before:


# pyfs - The FS Planner Python Module


## Requirements

* Tarski
* Boost

## Development notes

ATM the following libraries need to be on the `$LD_LIBRARY_PATH`:
* Boost (see notes below)


### Compiling Boost

Boost needs to be especifically configured to target the desired version
of Python and make sure that we're not using Python 2.x

```
./bootstrap.sh --with-python=/usr/bin/python3 --with-python-root=/usr
```

the above configured correctly ```Boost.build``` tool ```b2``` in my 16.04
system. Specifying ```--with-python-version=3.5``` resulted in an invalid
configuration, as Python interaces were compiling against ```libpython2```.
The build command used was

```
./b2 --build-dir=/tmp/build-boost --enable-unicode=ucs4 stage
```

Note that the UCS4 implementation of unicode used by Python 3.x. This I spotted
on [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28830653/build-boost-with-multiple-python-versions)

> Also, be aware that Boost.Python and user code may need recompiled to match
the Python's CPU architecture and UCS-2 or UCS-4 unicode configurations.

and this [gist](https://gist.github.com/melvincabatuan/a5a4a10b15ef31a5a481).

**NOTE**: I had to let know ```b2``` that I wanted a build with ```C++11``` features
enabled. I used this command

```
echo "using gcc : 5.4 : /the/path/to/g++-5.4 : <cxxflags>-std=c++11 ;" > ./tools/build/src/user-config.jam
```

as per [this advice on Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/a/43716427/338107).

**NOTE #2**: if the client code is being compiled with c++-14 support (as is the case) for
```FS``` then it is safest to compiled the boost libraries also with c++-14 enabled. For that, instead
of the command above use instead


```
echo "using gcc : 5.4 : /the/path/to/g++-5.4 : <cxxflags>-std=c++14 ;" > ./tools/build/src/user-config.jam
```

See [here](https://github.com/boostorg/system/issues/24) for more details on the issue (which is acknowledged by boost as bug).

## Building and Deploying pyfs
Let us walk you through a debug build, for the moment being.
First, compile the C++ FS planner as usual (check instructions on the parent readme file if don't know how to do this):
```
./build.py -d
```

Assuming everything went well, you should be able to build an install (in the active virtual environment) by running
the build bash script:
```
cd pyfs
.../pyfs$ ./build.sh
```

which essentially is equivalent to:
```
.../pyfs$ python setup.py build --debug
.../pyfs$ pip install -e .
```

To test that the previous two steps worked out as expected, you may run this example
```
.../pyfs/examples$ python blocks.py
```


### Troubleshooting and Debugging
Debugging Python extensions is not a piece of cake. To help out with that, you can find a basic C++ entry point for
your Python scripts
(adapted from the [official Python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3.5/extending/embedding.html)),
which seems to be easier to use within gbd and similar debuggers than the full Python interpreter.

Assuming you want to debug the `blocks.py` script in `examples`:


```
cd examples

# Compile the runner scripts (might use python3-dbg-config as well, but that seems to clash with numpy if it is 
# only compiled in production mode)  
gcc $(python3-config --cflags) runner.cxx $(python3-config --ldflags) -o runner.bin 

# You can run the script like this:
./runner.bin blocks main

# Or debug it like this:
cgdb -ex=run --args ./runner.bin blocks main
 
# Or analyze your code with valgrind:
valgrind --leak-check=full --show-leak-kinds=all --num-callers=50 --track-origins=yes \
    --log-file="valgrind-output.$(date '+%H%M%S').txt" ./runner.bin blocks main
  
```

If you get `module not found` errors or similar, remember to run all of the above within the same virtual environment
where you have built and installed everything.

Commit message:

Add alternative troubleshooting mechanism to documentation

pyfs/README.md, after:


# pyfs - The FS Planner Python Module


## Requirements

* Tarski
* Boost

## Development notes

ATM the following libraries need to be on the `$LD_LIBRARY_PATH`:
* Boost (see notes below)


### Compiling Boost

Boost needs to be especifically configured to target the desired version
of Python and make sure that we're not using Python 2.x

```
./bootstrap.sh --with-python=/usr/bin/python3 --with-python-root=/usr
```

the above configured correctly ```Boost.build``` tool ```b2``` in my 16.04
system. Specifying ```--with-python-version=3.5``` resulted in an invalid
configuration, as Python interaces were compiling against ```libpython2```.
The build command used was

```
./b2 --build-dir=/tmp/build-boost --enable-unicode=ucs4 stage
```

Note that the UCS4 implementation of unicode used by Python 3.x. This I spotted
on [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28830653/build-boost-with-multiple-python-versions)

> Also, be aware that Boost.Python and user code may need recompiled to match
the Python's CPU architecture and UCS-2 or UCS-4 unicode configurations.

and this [gist](https://gist.github.com/melvincabatuan/a5a4a10b15ef31a5a481).

**NOTE**: I had to let know ```b2``` that I wanted a build with ```C++11``` features
enabled. I used this command

```
echo "using gcc : 5.4 : /the/path/to/g++-5.4 : <cxxflags>-std=c++11 ;" > ./tools/build/src/user-config.jam
```

as per [this advice on Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/a/43716427/338107).

**NOTE #2**: if the client code is being compiled with c++-14 support (as is the case) for
```FS``` then it is safest to compiled the boost libraries also with c++-14 enabled. For that, instead
of the command above use instead


```
echo "using gcc : 5.4 : /the/path/to/g++-5.4 : <cxxflags>-std=c++14 ;" > ./tools/build/src/user-config.jam
```

See [here](https://github.com/boostorg/system/issues/24) for more details on the issue (which is acknowledged by boost as bug).

## Building and Deploying pyfs
Let us walk you through a debug build, for the moment being.
First, compile the C++ FS planner as usual (check instructions on the parent readme file if don't know how to do this):
```
./build.py -d
```

Assuming everything went well, you should be able to build an install (in the active virtual environment) by running
the build bash script:
```
cd pyfs
.../pyfs$ ./build.sh
```

which essentially is equivalent to:
```
.../pyfs$ python setup.py build --debug
.../pyfs$ pip install -e .
```

To test that the previous two steps worked out as expected, you may run this example
```
.../pyfs/examples$ python blocks.py
```


### Troubleshooting and Debugging
Debugging Python extensions is not a piece of cake. Let us assume that you want to debug the `blocks.py` script 
mentioned above, that is producing some error. A somewhat rudimentary mechanism to find out a bit of information
about SEGFAULTS, etc. is by using the `PYTHONFAULTHANDLER` environment variable:
```
PYTHONFAULTHANDLER=1 python blocks.py
``` 

This will print out some stack trace. A better alternative is to debug through gdb or any similar debugger.
To help out with that, you can find a basic C++ entry point for your Python scripts
(adapted from the [official Python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3.5/extending/embedding.html)).
This seems to be easier to use within gbd and similar debuggers than the full Python interpreter.

Again assuming you want to debug the `blocks.py` script in `examples`:
```
cd examples

# Compile the runner scripts (might use python3-dbg-config as well, but that seems to clash with numpy if it is 
# only compiled in production mode)  
gcc $(python3-config --cflags) runner.cxx $(python3-config --ldflags) -o runner.bin 

# You can run the script like this:
./runner.bin blocks main

# Or debug it like this:
cgdb -ex=run --args ./runner.bin blocks main
 
# Or analyze your code with valgrind:
valgrind --leak-check=full --show-leak-kinds=all --num-callers=50 --track-origins=yes \
    --log-file="valgrind-output.$(date '+%H%M%S').txt" ./runner.bin blocks main
  
```

If you get `module not found` errors or similar, remember to run all of the above within the same virtual environment
where you have built and installed everything.
